---
layout: post
title: Multi-Species Experiment Update - Temperature and Water Flow Issues, FH Star Disease Progression  
date: '2023-07-28'
categories: [PhD, pycnopodia, sswd_multispecies_2023]
tags: [PhD, pycnopodia, pisaster, dermasterias]
---
Day 6 sampling for all, and 4 more Friday Harbor stars from the exposed side have dropped arms! Also, lots of water flow and temperature issues... details in post.



#### Day 6 --> 2023-07-27
Melanie and I again today! Also, today is Day 6 sampling for all multi-species bins (except for the FH stars).

Morning check:
All controls looked good       
Exposed: 4 more bins had the FH star arm drop (bins 1, 4, 5, and 8)
- Since we're doing sampling today anyway, we don't have to do extra sampling for the disease sign - it lined up well!

Note: the water for Bin 3 (which we sampled for Day 3, and yesterday for FH first arm drop) didn't have any water flow overnight... water looks yucky. Fixed it as soon as I saw it for the check.     

PHOTO

Sampled coelomocytes and coelomocyte supernatant from all the pisasters, dermasterias, and wild pynos from all bins     
Collected coelomoic fluid for Melanie for bins 1, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and bins 9, 12, 13,14,15,16    

Temperature, flow, and chiller issues - see section below.

#### Day 7 --> 2023-07-28

### Water Flow, Water Temperature, and Chiller Issues:   
#### Water temperature
We are logging temperature data using HOBO loggers. Melanie noticed 2023-07-26 that the loggers' lights were flashing, which means that they were meeting the threshold she set for temperature alarms. She had it set that the lights will flash whenever the temperature is above 13 C for more than an hour, cumulatively. The recording happens every 30 minutes.

We asked the folks at USGS if we could the chiller hooked up for our room, so they got to work on that. It took some time to flush the system and to get the chlorine out of the bins, so we weren't able to get it set up until 2023-07-27. They had to turn the water off for 20mins to switch over to the chilled line (14:49pm-15:09pm). The water came on and it looked like it was working great!

We checked the stars again for our evening check around 5:30, but the water was off. We checked the float valve in the chiller tank and saw that it was (1) stuck in the up position, and (2), that the reservoir was nearly empty. We shut the pressure valve of the system off, and pushed the float valve down, and the reservoir started to fill up again. It took about 20mins to fill up. Once the reservoir was full, we turned the pressure system back on to get the flow going into our room and tanks. Things looked like they were working well around 6:35pm.

We checked the system again around 8:40pm, and saw that the float was stuck in the down position, and that the reservoir was completely empty and we had no flow in our room. We turned the pressure system off, let the reservoir filled again, and adjust the float valve. We realized that the likely main issue is that the flow rate for all of our tanks (we have a LOT of stars) is likely too high for the reservoir to keep up with! But we are unable to swtitch the system back to the ambient line and the stars need water, so we decided we'll spend the night turning off the pressure every 2 hours to let the reservoir fill (with water turned off for 20 mins) and then turning the water back on.

In the morning (2023-07-28) we'll ask if it's possible to have two of our four tables be put on the chilled water, and two on ambient. We could then keep our stars that are in the experiment in the two tables with chilled, and the other tables could house our quarantine stars that we're monitoring before we put them in an experiment.

Pisaster and dermasterias are probably ok-enough, but pycnos are very sensitive to temperature and flow rate - they need definitely below 13C (ideally below 12C) and high flow rate. We haven't had issues with this until this past week with warmer water temperatures. And we're going into the warmer-water season now, so we need to figure this out asap. These temperatures aren't ideal for any of the species, actually, because we don't know enough about the temperature-disease relationship, so we'd rather not have them stressed by temperature and low flow.

Here's our schedule for the night of 2023-07-27 to the morning of 2023-07-28:         
| Time Water Off | Time Water On |
|----------------|---------------|
| 2:49pm         | 3:09pm        |
| 6:14pm         | 6:34pm        |
| 8:45pm         | 9:05pm        |
| 11:05pm        | 11:25pm       |
| 1:25am         | 1:45am        |
| 3:45am         | 4:05am        |
| 6:05am         | 6:25am        |
| 8:25am         | 8:45am        |

2023-07-27 --> 11:42pm     
Change of plans. The water is not flowing at all into the reservoir. So... we have upped the air bubbblers for all tanks, left a note for John to call us when he gets here in the morning, and then we'll go from there.

At the very least, all the stars are experiencing the same thing.

This could be thought of as an unintentional increase in disease exposure treatment for the multi-species experiment... and the controls are getting it, too. it just sucks that the temperature is going to be warmer than we want for all the stars.
