---
layout: post
title: MUSP Day 18 through 26 Update and WAT Start and REX Start
date: '2023-08-17'
categories: [PhD, pycnopodia, sswd_multispecies_2023]
tags: [PhD, pycnopodia, pisaster, dermasterias]
---
BIG UPDATE! Marrowstone has been incredibly busy with lots of experiments and lots of day-to-day tasks to keep on top of, that I put off posting an update... so here's a big one.

## Day 18 --> 2023-08-08
### Morning:

#### MUSP
MUSP controls all look great.      
MUSP exposed:    
Bin1 --> _Dermasterias_ looks fine; _Pisaster_ dead; _Pycnopodia_ has dropped an arm     
Bin2 --> _Dermasterias_ fine; _Pisaster_ dead     
Bin3 --> _Dermasterias_ and _Pisaster_ looks fine; at sampling time, the _Pycnopodia_ had 1 arm twisted and 4 arms crossed     
Bin4 --> _Dermasterias_ and _Pisaster_ look ok; _Pycnopodia_ dead    
Bin5 --> _Dermasterias_ ok; _Pisaster_ one arm crossed and remaining arms bunched; _Pycnopodia_ dead      
Bin6 --> _Dermasterias_, _Pisaster_, wild _Pycnopodia_, and Friday Harbor _Pycnopodia_ all ok      
Bin7 --> _Dermasterias_ and _Pisaster_ ok; _Pycnopodia_ has one arm curled (though next to the FH _Pycnopodia_) and at sampling time, wild _Pycnopodia_ had 2 arms folded over body and a weird inflated thing at madreporite      
Bin8 --> _Dermasterias_ and _Pisaster_ ok, _Pycnopodia_ dead

We sampled coelomocytes from 12:44pm-3:47pm.

#### WAT (Water Transmission experiment)
Did some more pre-filterting and filtering of Day 0 samples.

### Evening:      
#### MUSP
Similar to the morning check.    

#### WAT
Adult _Pycnopodia_ A is a little twisty-looking, so we might be able to start the Water Transmission (WAT) exposures and officially start the experiment tomorrow!

## Day 19 --> 2023-08-09    
Morning:    
#### MUSP
Controls --> all good!    
Exposed:  
Bin1 --> _Dermasterias_ ok; _Pisaster_ and wild _Pycnopodia_ dead     
Bin2 --> _Dermasterias_ ok     
Bin3 --> _Dermasterias_ ok; _Pisaster_ has 1 arm twisted; _Pycnopodia_ twisty on tubes     
Bin4 --> _Dermasterias_ and _Pisaster_ ok; _Pycnopodia_ dead    
Bin5 --> _Dermasterias_ ok; _Pisaster_ very twisty    
Bin6 --> all ok    
Bin7 --> all ok     
Bin8 --> _Dermasterias_ and _Pisaster_ ok     

#### WAT    
Finished Day 0 TFF filtering with the final 3 juvenile samples      

START WAT!!!!    

Sample adults and juveniles coelomic fluid (I take coelomocytes for adults since I don't have coelomocytes from adults that have been injected with sick CF for transmission --> I only have coelomocytes/RNA from adults that have bee n injected with raw homogenate from summer 2021 and summer 2022 experiments).   


#### MUSP Evening:   
Controls --> all ok     
Exposed -->     
Bin1 --> _Dermasterias_ ok    
Bin2 --> _Dermasterias_ ok    
Bin3 --> _Dermasterias_ ok; _Pisaster_ and _Pycnopodia_ a little twisty     
Bin4 --> _Dermasterias_ and _Pisaster_ ok     
Bin5 --> _Dermasterias_ ok; _Pisaster_ very twisty - 4 arms twisted!     
Bin6 --> _Dermasterias_, _Pisaster_, and Friday Harbor _Pycnopodia_ all look ok; but the wild _Pycnopodia_ is twisty!!!     
Bin7 --> all ok    
Bin8 --> _Dermasterias_ ok; _Pisaster_ 1 arm twisted and 1 lesion    

Thoughts about Bin 6. At first I was worried about contamination since the wild _Pycnopodia_ is sick and no one else is... but that doesn't make sense. If there was contamination, I would have expected the FH pycno to get sick... so it could be some resistance happening? The FH Pycno that we injected with sick CF maybe never got sick but perhaps was able to still transmit?? To be investigated ....

## Day 20 --> 2023-08-10    
### MUSP
FH Stars in exposed bins 6 and 7 still look fine, though the wild pycnos look a little bit like they might show signs. All controls look fine.    

### WAT
TFF filter some controls --> 1 L of autoclaved R0; 1L of tap water; 1 L of RO water (not autoclaved). Took 0.8um and 0.22um filters, and the viral concentrate.

## Day 21 --> 2023-08-11    
### MUSP Morning
Controls all good    

Exposed:    
B1 --> derm ok    
B2 --> derm ok     
B3 --> derm ok; pisaster twisted; pycno dropped 5 arms    
B4 --> derm ok; pisaster lesion    
B5 --> derm ok; pisaster in a ball twisted    
B6 --> derm ok; pisaster ok; wild pycno dropped an arm, low turgor, and twisted; FH pycno ok    
B7 --> derm ok; pisaster ok; wild pycno ok; FH pycno ok     
B8 --> derm ok; pisaster 3 arms twisted

### WAT morning  
All controls and all exposed look fine    

### PRES 2 Morning
All look good

### MUSP sampling
sampled coelomocytes and coelomocyte supernatant for all remaining stars. MP sampled controls, I sampled exposed. We sampled the FH stars in bins 6 and 7, and control pairs in bins 14 and 15.

Some exposed samplings weren't possible... reflected in our sample log.

### MUSP evening
Controls all ok    
Exposed:   
B1 --> derm ok     
B2 --> derm ok     
B3 --> derm ok, pisaster a couple of arm twist; pycno arm drops      
B4 --> derm ok; pisaster ok     
B5 --> derm ok, pisaster has all 5 arms twisted    
B6 --> derm ok; pisaster ok; wild pycno  dropped more arms and about 5 arms twisted; FH pycno ok    
B7 --> all ok     
B8 --> derm ok; pisaster 2 arms twist

### WAT Evening
all controls and expoesd ok

### PRES 2
all ok

## Day 22 --> 2023-08-12
### MUSP morning
Controls all look good     
Exposed      
B1 --> derm ok     
B2 --> derm ok    
B3 --> derm ok, pisaster 2-3 arm twist, pycno dead     
B4 --> derm ok, pisaster ok    
B5 --> derm ok, pisaster all 5 arms twisted    
B6 --> derm ok, pisaster ok, wild pycno only has one arm attached to disc (disc is still attached to side of bin, so not calling it dead yet), FH pycno ok     
B7 --> all stars look ok     
B8 --> derm ok, pisaster 2-3 arm twist     

### WAT morning
controls and exposed all good     

### Pres 2    
all good

### Co-housed disease line stars
Karen (adult pycno K) looks fine      
Pycno A --> totally fine except 4-5 arm twist and juvenile pycno 30 that's cohoused with A also looks ok.    

### Musp Evening
controls all good     
Exposed      
B1 --> derm ok    
B2 --> derm ok     
B3 --> derm ok; pisaster a little twisty      
B4 --> derm and pisaster ok     
B5 --> derm ok; pisaster twisty    
B6 --> derm and pisaster ok; wild pycno dead; FH pycno ok     
B7 --> all ok    
B8 --> derm ok; pisaster twisty

### WAT Evening
controls and exposed look good   

### PREs 2
All look ok    

## Day 23 --> 2023-08-13
### MUSP
No new updates... things look same as yesterday.

### WAT and PRES 2
No new updates...

## Day 24 --> 2023-08-14
### MUSP Morning
Controls all good.    
Exposed no new updates... same as previous 2 days    

### WAT morning
Adult 2_J_ERCF twisty, so sampled water with control pair (2_I_HKCF). Also sampled CF (n=3 with 750ul shield, n=3 just frozen) and did 2 smears per adult.    

Started TFF at ~1pm.    

### MUSP
Sampled MUSP.   

### MUSP Evening
No new updates.

### WAT Evening
No new updates... but TFF finished around 10:30pm    

## Day 25 --> 2023-08-15   
### MUSP morning
Controls --> all ok    
Exposed:      
B1 --> derm ok    
B2 --> derm ok     
B3 --> derm ok; pisaster puffy and twisted
B4 --> derm ok; pisaster crossed/twisty    
B5 --> derm ok; pisaster looks puffy and crossed     
B6 --> derm, pisaster, and FH pycno look ok    
B7 --> all ok    
B8 --> derm ok; pisaster low turgor     

### WAT
TFF for adult pair 3     

### REX START
There were 6 stars that survived their initial exposures from different experiments, so we re-exposed them with 200ul of ERCF.    
1_19_REX (previously 11_19_50ERCF from TIT)      
2_18_REX (previously 10_18_100ERCF from TIT)      
3_28_REX (previously 18_28_150ERCF from TIT)      
4_3_REX (previously 5_3_ERCF from FHW)       
5_56_REX (previously 1_56_ERCF from FHW)       
6_21_REX (previously 3_21_RERCF from PRES 1)      

## Day 26 --> 2023-08-16
## MUSP morning
All controls ok.   
Exposed... not sure --> I was packing up things to bring to folks at USGS.

I helped sampled a little from WAT so that we could bring CF from Karen and the control adult pycno to John Hansen at USGS Seattle who will be characterizing coelomocytes.   

I also gathered up some smears for Aine Hawthorn.   

I also brought boxes of PSC (coelomocytes in 300ul DNA/RNA Shield) and PSCS (coelomocyte supernatant straight frozen) to Roberts Lab at UW and put in -80.
