---
layout: post
title: October Goals
date: '2024-10-01'
categories: [MonthlyGoals]
---
October GOALS!

# Data Entry
## Summer 2022
See [previous post](https://grace-ac.github.io/dataentry/) for more information. I am aiming to complete my portion of the summer 2022 data entry this week! I only have four stars left.

## Summer 2023
Madeline Baird did a TON of work getting data entered for our biggest experiment from last summer - the 59-day multi-species experiment! There are a few controls that remain to be entered that I'll focus on this month, as I hope to present on this experiment at WSN in early November.

There are also two other experiments from summer 2023 that need to be entered, but they are lower priority... so I'll do those as I have down time this fall.

# Summer 2021/2022 Analyses
Re-running to align to genome and get gene annotations... then perform DEG analyses, get cool genes.

# First paper - Summer 2021 and 2022 work
After I get the above figured out and results finalized, I'll jump back into my paper draft. Ideally by early next week! I want to have a solid draft done soon so that I have it on hand, and then I can put the rest of my focus on the multispecies RNAseq data.

# Multi-species RNAseq Data
I'm expecting the RNAseq data from Azenta/Genewiz this week or next! So I need to collect the necessary files -- genomes (if exist), annotation files, etc.

Once I get the data - start QC, trimming, etc.

I also will be working on organizing and updating the wiki pages and readme files for the repository: [project-pycno-multispecies-2023](https://github.com/grace-ac/project-pycno-multispecies-2023)
