---
layout: post
title:  July Goals
date: '2025-07-01'
categories: [MonthlyGoals]
---
See post for details!


# JULY GOALS: Multi-Species

## RNA Extractions and RNA Send Off
Finish RNA extractions for Day 12 controls and Day 6 Exposed and Control. Total RNA samples to send --> n=54.

THe quote and everything is all accepted, just need to finish extractions, run samples on Qubit to ensure there's RNA (if not, then I'll have to select other samples) and then send off.

## Multispecies Analyses
### _P. helianthoides_    
The alignment of the 6 RNAseq libraries from the 6 _P. helianthoides_ exposed stars from day 12 are aligned to the _P. helianthoides_ genome. I have gene count and transcript count matrices.

### _P. ochraceus_
I contacted Mike and Lauren and got help figuring out how to make the files I had correlate to each other in order to complete alignment to the _P. ochraceus_ genome. Got that all sorted and now have matrices, though I still want to go through and ensure they're correct-looking.

### _D. imbricata_
I contacted Mike and Lauren for this dataset as well, and they found a whole bunch for files to send me with the help of another collaborator of theirs, Melissa. I'm about to start working through what these files are and how they correlate to each other in order to complete alignment for the _D. imbricata_ libraries.

### Each Species work to do:
1. Align n=6 libraries to respective genome
2. Characterize genes/transcripts expressed

What else?? Should I also assmeble transcriptomes? Chat about this with Steven in our meeting this week.

## WDA Presentation
Finish characterizing genes expressed in each species at time point Day 12 in the exposed stars.

Make figures:
1. Disease signs over time (have this already)
What other figures? Ask Steven for ideas. 
